# My Economics Dashboard
This project pulls data from FRED and other economic data sources for presentation.

Here, you'll find a pre-loaded Duckdb database, which contains data from a number of FRED endpoints.

## Data Flow
That data is managed in DBT and displayed in a Streamlit dashboard. The entire project includes an API connection to FRED and to the New York Times, for pulling recent business headlines. 

*You will need to generate your own API keys and add them to the environment to use the endpoints. Otherwise, data will be pulled from the existing Duckdb database and preloaded headlines.*

## FRED API and DuckDB
The project calls a series of endpoints within the FRED API to get dataframes on economic measures like inflation, GDP, income, and unemployment.

Calling these endpoints results in Pandas dataframes, which are loaded into Duckdb.

The Duckdb file associated with this project is a snapshot in time and is loaded to Git so that the project can be run without a FRED API key, however, getting updated data will require calls to the FRED API.

## dbt
The dbt project, dbt_econ, manages the data called from the FRED API's endpoints. It contains 3 layers:

- Staging: More or less a copy of the source data pulled from FRED.
- Intermediate: Cleaned and transformed data. Here, you'll find models that combine similar economic indicators into single tables (IE, Headline CPI, Core CPI, and the PCE are all combined into the table int_inflation_measures).
- Marts: Wide models that serve as a clearing house for large amounts of economic data. This is the primary source of truth for the front end Streamlit dashboard.

## Dagster
Dagster orchestrates the data pipeline. 

graph LR
A[FRED API] --> D[Dagster]
B[NYT API] --> D
D --> E[(DuckDB)]
E --> F[dbt Models]
F --> G[FastAPI]
G --> H[Streamlit Dashboard]

## AI Summaries
Within this project, you'll find functions that generate AI summaries of New York Times economics articles. These summaries are generated by Gemini.

Due to the limits on Gemini tokens, the functions don't actively run in the project. Instead, the Times' article abstracts are included below their respective headlines.

## Docker
This program is Dockerized, so it can be run at your convenience.

Dashboard: http://localhost:8501
API: http://localhost:8000/docs
http://localhost:3000
